# MIRO report for the  ontology
We here report the documentation for the [Semantic Hadith Ontology](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadith-V2/blob/main/SemanticHadith2.0.owl) according to the guidelines available in [1].

## A. Basics
1. **Ontology name (MUST)**
Semantic Hadith Ontology , version 2.0.1

2. **Ontology owner (MUST)**
[Amna Kamran](https://github.com/A-Kamran)

3. **Ontology license (MUST)**
[CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

4. **Ontology URL (MUST)**
<[https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadithKG/blob/main/SemanticHadithOntology.owl](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadith-V2/blob/main/SemanticHadith2.0.owl)>

5. **Ontology repository (MUST)**
<https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadith-V2>

6. **Methodological framework (MUST)**
The ontology defines the concepts about Hadith (Recorded narrations of the sayings and deeds of Prophet Muhammad), its various parts and entities.

## B. Motivation
1. **Need (MUST)**
The application of semantic web or open data in the Islamic knowledge domain is limited. Work on mature knowledge modelling for the Quran exists along with published linked data, but the domain of Hadith has failed to cache upon this potential; hence, lacking the digital connection between these two most important sources of Islamic religious knowledge that could help extract information from them. The Islamic knowledge domain has not taken advantage of the guaranteed capabilities of the semantic web and the knowledge graphs. 

2. **Competition (MUST)**
So far, no ontologies are available representing Hadith.

3. **Target audience (MUST)**
Hadith Researchers, Students of The Islamic Knowledge. 

## C. Scope, requirements, development community
1. **Scope and coverage (MUST)**
The ontology covers the domain concepts of Hadith, Narrators and Narrator Chains. In particular the Narrator Chains have been modelled to a segment level to ensure retrieval of the Sequence of narrators
The result is a vocabulary available to develop interoperable applications within the Islamic domain. Named Entities occuring in the Hadith Texts.

2. **Development community (MUST)**
 (IKnex),
 National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences (NUCES-FAST), Islamabad, Pakistan

3. **Communication (MUST)** [Issues](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadith-V2/issues) on Github.

## D. Knowledge acquisition
1. **Knowledge acquisition method (MUST)**
Analysis of the available literature on Semantic Web, ontologies and Islamic Knowledge representation. In particular, how to represent Hadith and the Narrators of Hadith.  Natural Language Processing to see what sort of entities to  model inrealtion  to Hadith. Competency questions on the relevant domain.

2. **Source knowledge location (SHOULD)** 
  http://www.islamicurdubooks.com/

3. **Content Selection (SHOULD)** 
Hadith Collections, Hadith, Narrators, and  Narrator Chains. Events, People, Groups of people, Places, verses of Quran and Topic and themes covered in the Hadith.

## E. Ontology content
1. **Knowledge representation language (MUST)**
OWL 2 generated by Protégé v5.5.0; however, the ontology is at this stage only descriptive, and
it uses a reduced subset of OWL 2 capabilities, being the Description Logic ALCRIF(D).

2. **Development environment (OPTIONAL)**
Protégé v5.5.0.
OWL API  (Java API for OWL used to build, manipulate and store the ontology in various supported formats)

3. **Ontology metrics (SHOULD)**
Axiom	757	;
Logical axiom count	365	;
Declaration axioms count	240	;
Class count	44;
Object property count	34	;
Data property count	45	;
Individual count	104	.

5. **Incorporation of other ontologies (MUST)**
[DCTerms](<http://purl.org/dc/terms>), [schema](<http://schema.org>), [dbpedia](<hhtp://dbpedia.org>),[quranOntolgy](<http://quranontology.com/Resource/>)     

6. **Entity naming convention (MUST)** 
Entities follows the CamelCase notation. Both datatype and object properties are named as verb senses with mixedCase notation.

7. **Identifier generation policy (MUST)**
Identifiers of the instances must be generated by the application

8. **Identity metadata policy (MUST)**
All entities have an dcterms:description natural language explanation

9. **Upper ontology (MUST)** 
See point E.4.

10. **Ontology relationships (MUST)**
34 object properties; 45 datatype properties.

11. **Axiom pattern (MUST)** 
757 axioms included (of which ogical axiom count 365,	Declaration axioms count 240, Class count	44,	Object property count	34,	Data property count	45,	Individual count	104,	Annotation Property count	16,  SubClassOf	85,	
EquivalentClasses	5, Hidden GCI Count	3, SubObjectPropertyOf	14,	EquivalentObjectProperties	0,	InverseObjectProperties	6,	FunctionalObjectProperty	3,	InverseFunctionalObjectProperty	0,	TransitiveObjectProperty	2,	SymmetricObjectProperty	3,	
ObjectPropertyDomain	26,	ObjectPropertyRange	24,SubPropertyChainOf	2,AnnotationAssertion	150, AnnotationPropertyRangeOf	2,  ClassAssertion	6, DataPropertyAssertion	183, DataPropertyAssertion	183
)
 

11. **Deferencable URI (OPTIONAL)** 
It is possible to use deferencable URIs, but no assumption on this is made in the ontology.

## F. Managing change
1. **Sustainability plan (MUST)**
Some research projects are being prepared to leverage the ontology.

2. **Entity deprecation strategy (MUST)**
Deprecated classes will be labelled as obsolete with a proper annotation property.

3. **Versioning policy (MUST)**
The Semantic Hadith ontology adopts sequence-based identifiers for its versions with a major number and a minor number, separated by a dot. A novel release featuring only small changes will cause a switch of the minor number, while relevant and/or structural changes affects also the major number.

## G. Quality assurance
1. **Testing (MUST)**
Tests have been made by checking competency questions in the paper. The Competency Questions with their Sparql Queries and results are available [here](https://github.com/A-Kamran/SemanticHadith-V2/blob/main/Competency%20Questions%20and%20SPARQL%20Queries.md).

2. **Evaluation (MUST)**
Metrics, and discussions over Semantic Hadith ontology evaluation have been discussed in the paper.

3. **Examples of use (MUST)**
At the moment, only theoretical examples of usage in the presentation paper.

4. **Institutional endorsement (OPTIONAL)**
None

5. **Evidence of use (MUST)**
The ontology is still new, but we plan to use it in forthcoming projects.

## References
[1] Matentzoglu, N., Malone, J., Mungall, C., & Stevens, R. (2018). MIRO: guidelines for minimum information for the reporting of an ontology. _Journal of biomedical semantics, 9_(1), 6.
